_pages/about.md, before:

---
permalink: /
title: <!-- "Academic Pages is a ready-to-fork GitHub Pages template for academic personal websites" -->
author_profile: true
redirect_from: 
  - /about/
  - /about.html
---

<!-- 

Example: editing a markdown file for a talk
![Editing a markdown file for a talk](/images/editing-talk.png)

For more info
------
More info about configuring Academic Pages can be found in [the guide](https://academicpages.github.io/markdown/), the [growing wiki](https://github.com/academicpages/academicpages.github.io/wiki), and you can always [ask a question on GitHub](https://github.com/academicpages/academicpages.github.io/discussions). The [guides for the Minimal Mistakes theme](https://mmistakes.github.io/minimal-mistakes/docs/configuration/) (which this theme was forked from) might also be helpful.


# Enhancing immersive experiences through user-centered research

Welcome. I’m Dr. Tanja Kojić, a UX and HCI researcher focused on immersive technologies, with expertise in user experience, accessibility, and the ethical implications of interactive systems.  
My work combines experimental design, technical implementation, and human insight to better understand how users engage with XR environments in both research and public settings.

---

## Current Focus Areas

**Trust & Safety in XR**  
Designing and evaluating user experiences in socially complex and physically shared immersive spaces.

**Human–AI Interaction**  
Studying how AI-powered avatars and assistants shape collaboration, emotion, and agency in immersive contexts.

**Ethical UX Research**  
Promoting inclusive, transparent, and participant-aware methodologies in digital twin and XR-based research.

---

## Explore My Work

<div style="display: flex; flex-wrap: wrap; justify-content: space-between; text-align: center; gap: 2rem; margin-top: 2rem;">

<div style="flex: 1; min-width: 200px;">
  <h3>Research Projects</h3>
  <p>Learn more about my ongoing and completed projects.</p>
  <p><a href="/projects/">View Projects →</a></p>
</div>

<div style="flex: 1; min-width: 200px;">
  <h3>Publications</h3>
  <p>Explore selected journal articles and conference papers.</p>
  <p><a href="/publications/">View Publications →</a></p>
</div>

<div style="flex: 1; min-width: 200px;">
  <h3>Contact & Collaboration</h3>
  <p>Interested in working together or inviting me to speak?</p>
  <p><a href="/contact/">Get in Touch →</a></p>
</div>

</div>

---

<div style="text-align: center; margin-top: 3rem;">
<em>“Design is not just how it looks — it's how it makes people feel.”</em>
</div>
-->

<style>
  .hero-btn-primary,
  .hero-btn-primary:hover,
  .hero-btn-primary:focus,
  .hero-btn-primary:active,
  .hero-btn-primary:visited {
    display: inline-block;
    padding: 0.5rem 1.25rem;
    background-color: #000000;
    color: #ffffff !important;
    text-decoration: none !important;
    border-radius: 4px;
    font-weight: 500;
    font-size: 0.85rem;
    transition: all 0.3s ease;
    border-bottom: none !important;
  }
  
  .hero-btn-primary:hover {
    background-color: #000000;
    transform: translateY(-2px);
    box-shadow: 0 4px 8px rgba(0, 0, 0, 0.2);
  }
  
  .hero-btn-secondary,
  .hero-btn-secondary:hover,
  .hero-btn-secondary:focus,
  .hero-btn-secondary:active,
  .hero-btn-secondary:visited {
    display: inline-block;
    padding: 0.5rem 1.25rem;
    background-color: #ffffff;
    color: #000000 !important;
    text-decoration: none !important;
    border-radius: 4px;
    font-weight: 500;
    border: 1px solid #cccccc;
    font-size: 0.85rem;
    transition: all 0.3s ease;
    border-bottom: 1px solid #cccccc !important;
  }
  
  .hero-btn-secondary:hover {
    background-color: #f8f8f8;
    border-color: #000000;
    border-bottom: 1px solid #000000 !important;
    transform: translateY(-2px);
    box-shadow: 0 4px 8px rgba(0, 0, 0, 0.1);
  }
</style>

<div style="margin: 0; padding: 0 0 3rem 0;">
  <h2 style="font-size: 0.75rem; font-weight: 700; letter-spacing: 0.15em; text-transform: uppercase; color: #333333; margin-bottom: 1.25rem;">SENIOR SCIENTIST & UX RESEARCHER</h2>
  
  <p style="font-size: 1.05em; line-height: 1.7; color: #000000; margin-bottom: 2rem; font-weight: 400;">
    My work connects academic research with real human experience. Focused on making technology work in the real world. 
  </p>
  
  <div style="display: flex; gap: 1rem; flex-wrap: wrap;">
    <a href="/publications/" class="hero-btn-primary">View Research</a>
    <a href="/portfolio/" class="hero-btn-secondary">UX Portfolio</a>
  </div>
</div>

---

## About Me
I am Dr. Tanja Kojić, exploring where new media and intelligent technologies meet, and how immersive solutions shape human experience across real and virtual worlds. 

As a Senior Researcher at the Quality and Usability Lab (QU Lab) at TU Berlin, my work focuses on the human side of immersive systems. I investigate how factors such as interaction design, embodiment, environment, and social context shape user experience, engagement, and acceptance. Rather than looking only at technical performance, I aim to understand how technology feels to users — whether it is intuitive, safe, inclusive, and meaningful in real-world situations. 

My research combines experimental studies, user experience evaluation, and interdisciplinary collaboration. I work closely with academic and industry partners across Europe, contributing to projects that explore immersive technologies in areas such as education, mobility, and digital culture. Alongside research, I am passionate about teaching and mentoring students, and about translating complex technological concepts into accessible knowledge. I strongly believe that the future of immersive technology depends not only on what is technically possible, but on what is valuable and usable for people.

<!-- Welcome. I’m Dr. Tanja Kojić — a UX and HCI researcher focused on immersive technologies, with expertise in user experience, accessibility, and the ethical implications of interactive systems.  
My work combines experimental design, technical implementation, and human insight to better understand how users engage with XR environments in both research and public settings. -->

---

## Research Focus

**Trust & Safety in XR**  
Designing and evaluating user experiences in socially complex and physically shared immersive spaces.

**Human–AI Interaction**  
Studying how AI-powered avatars and assistants shape collaboration, emotion, and agency in immersive contexts.

**Ethical UX Research**  
Promoting inclusive, transparent, and participant-aware methodologies in digital twin and XR-based research.

- **Immersive Media Experience (VR/AR/XR)** — Understanding how visual, auditory, and interactive elements shape presence, engagement, and comfort.
- **Human–AI Interaction** — Studying how AI-driven avatars and assistants influence collaboration, communication, and emotional engagement.
- **Ethics and Accessibility in Design** — Developing research and design practices that prioritize inclusivity, transparency, and user well-being.
- **Digital Twins** — Exploring human factors, trust, and usability in virtual representations of real-world systems.

---


## Current Role

I work at the **Quality and Usability Lab** at **TU Berlin**, contributing to national and EU-funded projects in the fields of immersive media, AI, and digital twins.  
I collaborate closely with interdisciplinary teams, bridging technical innovation with human-centered research methodologies.

---

## Recent Work

<div style="display: flex; flex-wrap: wrap; gap: 2rem; margin-top: 2rem; margin-bottom: 3rem;">

<div style="flex: 1; min-width: 300px; border: 1px solid #e8e8e8; border-radius: 8px; padding: 2rem; background-color: #ffffff; box-shadow: 0 1px 3px rgba(0,0,0,0.05);">
  <div style="margin-bottom: 1rem; display: flex; align-items: center;">
    <i class="fa fa-file-alt" style="font-size: 1.2rem; margin-right: 0.5rem; color: #666;"></i>
    <span style="font-weight: 400; color: #666; font-size: 0.875rem;">Latest Publication</span>
  </div>
  <h3 style="margin: 0 0 0.75rem 0; font-size: 1.125rem; font-weight: 600; line-height: 1.4; color: #1a1a1a;">Understanding User Behavior in Complex Systems</h3>
  <p style="color: #666; font-size: 0.9375rem; line-height: 1.6; margin: 0;">A mixed-methods study examining how users navigate information-dense interfaces.</p>
</div>

<div style="flex: 1; min-width: 300px; border: 1px solid #e8e8e8; border-radius: 8px; padding: 2rem; background-color: #ffffff; box-shadow: 0 1px 3px rgba(0,0,0,0.05);">
  <div style="margin-bottom: 1rem; display: flex; align-items: center;">
    <i class="fa fa-briefcase" style="font-size: 1.2rem; margin-right: 0.5rem; color: #666;"></i>
    <span style="font-weight: 400; color: #666; font-size: 0.875rem;">Recent Project</span>
  </div>
  <h3 style="margin: 0 0 0.75rem 0; font-size: 1.125rem; font-weight: 600; line-height: 1.4; color: #1a1a1a;">Healthcare App Redesign</h3>
  <p style="color: #666; font-size: 0.9375rem; line-height: 1.6; margin: 0;">Redesigning a patient portal to improve accessibility and reduce cognitive load.</p>
</div>

</div>

---

## Beyond Research

I enjoy transforming complex research into interactive experiences for the public and academic communities.  
Whether in a lab, a classroom, or a science festival, I strive to make immersive technologies understandable, approachable, and beneficial to a wide audience.

---

<div style="text-align: center; margin-top: 3rem;">
<em>“Design is not just how it looks — it's how it makes people feel.”</em>
</div>


---

<p style="text-align:center;"><em>“Research is not just about finding answers — it's about asking the right questions.”</em></p>

Commit message:

Revise research focus areas to enhance clarity and relevance in immersive technologies

_pages/about.md, after:

---
permalink: /
title: <!-- "Academic Pages is a ready-to-fork GitHub Pages template for academic personal websites" -->
author_profile: true
redirect_from: 
  - /about/
  - /about.html
---

<!-- 

Example: editing a markdown file for a talk
![Editing a markdown file for a talk](/images/editing-talk.png)

For more info
------
More info about configuring Academic Pages can be found in [the guide](https://academicpages.github.io/markdown/), the [growing wiki](https://github.com/academicpages/academicpages.github.io/wiki), and you can always [ask a question on GitHub](https://github.com/academicpages/academicpages.github.io/discussions). The [guides for the Minimal Mistakes theme](https://mmistakes.github.io/minimal-mistakes/docs/configuration/) (which this theme was forked from) might also be helpful.


# Enhancing immersive experiences through user-centered research

Welcome. I’m Dr. Tanja Kojić, a UX and HCI researcher focused on immersive technologies, with expertise in user experience, accessibility, and the ethical implications of interactive systems.  
My work combines experimental design, technical implementation, and human insight to better understand how users engage with XR environments in both research and public settings.

---

## Current Focus Areas

**Trust & Safety in XR**  
Designing and evaluating user experiences in socially complex and physically shared immersive spaces.

**Human–AI Interaction**  
Studying how AI-powered avatars and assistants shape collaboration, emotion, and agency in immersive contexts.

**Ethical UX Research**  
Promoting inclusive, transparent, and participant-aware methodologies in digital twin and XR-based research.

---

## Explore My Work

<div style="display: flex; flex-wrap: wrap; justify-content: space-between; text-align: center; gap: 2rem; margin-top: 2rem;">

<div style="flex: 1; min-width: 200px;">
  <h3>Research Projects</h3>
  <p>Learn more about my ongoing and completed projects.</p>
  <p><a href="/projects/">View Projects →</a></p>
</div>

<div style="flex: 1; min-width: 200px;">
  <h3>Publications</h3>
  <p>Explore selected journal articles and conference papers.</p>
  <p><a href="/publications/">View Publications →</a></p>
</div>

<div style="flex: 1; min-width: 200px;">
  <h3>Contact & Collaboration</h3>
  <p>Interested in working together or inviting me to speak?</p>
  <p><a href="/contact/">Get in Touch →</a></p>
</div>

</div>

---

<div style="text-align: center; margin-top: 3rem;">
<em>“Design is not just how it looks — it's how it makes people feel.”</em>
</div>
-->

<style>
  .hero-btn-primary,
  .hero-btn-primary:hover,
  .hero-btn-primary:focus,
  .hero-btn-primary:active,
  .hero-btn-primary:visited {
    display: inline-block;
    padding: 0.5rem 1.25rem;
    background-color: #000000;
    color: #ffffff !important;
    text-decoration: none !important;
    border-radius: 4px;
    font-weight: 500;
    font-size: 0.85rem;
    transition: all 0.3s ease;
    border-bottom: none !important;
  }
  
  .hero-btn-primary:hover {
    background-color: #000000;
    transform: translateY(-2px);
    box-shadow: 0 4px 8px rgba(0, 0, 0, 0.2);
  }
  
  .hero-btn-secondary,
  .hero-btn-secondary:hover,
  .hero-btn-secondary:focus,
  .hero-btn-secondary:active,
  .hero-btn-secondary:visited {
    display: inline-block;
    padding: 0.5rem 1.25rem;
    background-color: #ffffff;
    color: #000000 !important;
    text-decoration: none !important;
    border-radius: 4px;
    font-weight: 500;
    border: 1px solid #cccccc;
    font-size: 0.85rem;
    transition: all 0.3s ease;
    border-bottom: 1px solid #cccccc !important;
  }
  
  .hero-btn-secondary:hover {
    background-color: #f8f8f8;
    border-color: #000000;
    border-bottom: 1px solid #000000 !important;
    transform: translateY(-2px);
    box-shadow: 0 4px 8px rgba(0, 0, 0, 0.1);
  }
</style>

<div style="margin: 0; padding: 0 0 3rem 0;">
  <h2 style="font-size: 0.75rem; font-weight: 700; letter-spacing: 0.15em; text-transform: uppercase; color: #333333; margin-bottom: 1.25rem;">SENIOR SCIENTIST & UX RESEARCHER</h2>
  
  <p style="font-size: 1.05em; line-height: 1.7; color: #000000; margin-bottom: 2rem; font-weight: 400;">
    My work connects academic research with real human experience. Focused on making technology work in the real world. 
  </p>
  
  <div style="display: flex; gap: 1rem; flex-wrap: wrap;">
    <a href="/publications/" class="hero-btn-primary">View Research</a>
    <a href="/portfolio/" class="hero-btn-secondary">UX Portfolio</a>
  </div>
</div>

---

## About Me
I am Dr. Tanja Kojić, exploring where new media and intelligent technologies meet, and how immersive solutions shape human experience across real and virtual worlds. 

As a Senior Researcher at the Quality and Usability Lab (QU Lab) at TU Berlin, my work focuses on the human side of immersive systems. I investigate how factors such as interaction design, embodiment, environment, and social context shape user experience, engagement, and acceptance. Rather than looking only at technical performance, I aim to understand how technology feels to users — whether it is intuitive, safe, inclusive, and meaningful in real-world situations. 

My research combines experimental studies, user experience evaluation, and interdisciplinary collaboration. I work closely with academic and industry partners across Europe, contributing to projects that explore immersive technologies in areas such as education, mobility, and digital culture. Alongside research, I am passionate about teaching and mentoring students, and about translating complex technological concepts into accessible knowledge. I strongly believe that the future of immersive technology depends not only on what is technically possible, but on what is valuable and usable for people.

<!-- Welcome. I’m Dr. Tanja Kojić — a UX and HCI researcher focused on immersive technologies, with expertise in user experience, accessibility, and the ethical implications of interactive systems.  
My work combines experimental design, technical implementation, and human insight to better understand how users engage with XR environments in both research and public settings. -->

---

## Research Focus

- **Human Experience in XR** --
Measuring, modelling, and improving user experience, performance, and well-being in immersive environments. This includes investigating presence, engagement, comfort, and technology acceptance, with a focus on understanding how immersive systems perform in real-world use and during longer-term interaction.

- **Intelligent and Multimodal Interaction** -- 
Designing adaptive, multimodal, and AI-supported interaction systems for immersive and interactive media. This includes exploring how combinations of modalities support natural, efficient, and accessible interaction in complex digital environments.

- **Real-World Context** -- 
Studying how immersive and interactive technologies are experienced, adopted, and used in real-life environments. This includes applications in domains such as education, culture, mobility, and safety, with a focus on translating technological innovation into solutions that create measurable value for users, organisations, and society.


---

## Recent Work

<div style="display: flex; flex-wrap: wrap; gap: 2rem; margin-top: 2rem; margin-bottom: 3rem;">

<div style="flex: 1; min-width: 300px; border: 1px solid #e8e8e8; border-radius: 8px; padding: 2rem; background-color: #ffffff; box-shadow: 0 1px 3px rgba(0,0,0,0.05);">
  <div style="margin-bottom: 1rem; display: flex; align-items: center;">
    <i class="fa fa-file-alt" style="font-size: 1.2rem; margin-right: 0.5rem; color: #666;"></i>
    <span style="font-weight: 400; color: #666; font-size: 0.875rem;">Latest Publication</span>
  </div>
  <h3 style="margin: 0 0 0.75rem 0; font-size: 1.125rem; font-weight: 600; line-height: 1.4; color: #1a1a1a;">Understanding User Behavior in Complex Systems</h3>
  <p style="color: #666; font-size: 0.9375rem; line-height: 1.6; margin: 0;">A mixed-methods study examining how users navigate information-dense interfaces.</p>
</div>

<div style="flex: 1; min-width: 300px; border: 1px solid #e8e8e8; border-radius: 8px; padding: 2rem; background-color: #ffffff; box-shadow: 0 1px 3px rgba(0,0,0,0.05);">
  <div style="margin-bottom: 1rem; display: flex; align-items: center;">
    <i class="fa fa-briefcase" style="font-size: 1.2rem; margin-right: 0.5rem; color: #666;"></i>
    <span style="font-weight: 400; color: #666; font-size: 0.875rem;">Recent Project</span>
  </div>
  <h3 style="margin: 0 0 0.75rem 0; font-size: 1.125rem; font-weight: 600; line-height: 1.4; color: #1a1a1a;">Healthcare App Redesign</h3>
  <p style="color: #666; font-size: 0.9375rem; line-height: 1.6; margin: 0;">Redesigning a patient portal to improve accessibility and reduce cognitive load.</p>
</div>

</div>

---

## Beyond Research

I enjoy transforming complex research into interactive experiences for the public and academic communities.  
Whether in a lab, a classroom, or a science festival, I strive to make immersive technologies understandable, approachable, and beneficial to a wide audience.

---

<div style="text-align: center; margin-top: 3rem;">
<em>“Design is not just how it looks — it's how it makes people feel.”</em>
</div>


---

<p style="text-align:center;"><em>“Research is not just about finding answers — it's about asking the right questions.”</em></p>
